why your website matters even if you
aren't actively marketing it
[Music]
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com
and host of the top 100 marketing
podcast business growth show if you
haven't yet check out our weekly email
where i'm sharing actionable web and
marketing tips useful podcasts free
guides bonus resources and much much
more each and every monday so you can
start your week off with a bang sign up
today over at business growth dot email
so i'm often on conversations with
prospective customers and they'll say to
me sam
listen
we run outbound sales we do cold calling
cold email cold outreach everything we
do is outbound we don't need people to
come to us because we've got a sales
team running outbound sales our website
really doesn't matter or other prospects
might say to me look sam we've got a
great book of business already nearly
all of our work comes from existing
clients or they refer people they know
to us so they come straight to us so
again our website doesn't matter at all
i call bs the reason being is put
yourself in the buyer's shoes
let's say you get a cold call or maybe
you get a cold email and maybe even you
you think the product or the service
that's pitched on the cold call cold
email is of value so you take the
appointment with the sales rep to take
the next step chances are you're gonna
look that company up after your cool
right
so you're gonna give them a quick google
search check out the business and
have a little scan around see what
they're up to
likewise
if you are referred to a company because
someone says these are great for what
you need these do a good job again
chances are certainly i would i know a
lot of my friends clients colleagues
will do the same they're going to google
the company and they're going to check
out the website first so you don't know
what you don't know so a lot of these
prospective clients are going to be
looking up your site
checking you out and seeing what you're
up to what you can offer what's in it
for them before they have that sales
convo with you so let's say
you were referred to a company
and you go and check out their website
and it takes ages to load it takes three
four five seconds or longer to load so
that already on the back foot perhaps
the design looks really outdated it
looks unprofessional perhaps it doesn't
even load properly on your mobile device
on your smartphone so it's really hard
to navigate perhaps it's actually
confusing so the website headline
doesn't clearly show what they do or how
they help maybe the site lacks social
proof so it lacks reviews case studies
testimonials or client videos maybe the
site's only one page long so you only
get a brief idea of what the company is
doing and there's not really information
on their services or their offerings or
maybe you want to get in touch with them
but it's really difficult to find the
contact form or start a chat or drop
them an email so you really find that
yourself thinking twice about working
with a company because the website is
slow loading it comes across as
unprofessional it's not clear in terms
of the content or the messaging and it
doesn't reinforce confidence and their
ability to deliver because there's no
social proof there's no testimonials
case studies reviews so you're really
thinking twice about actually following
through with a sales conversation with
this company and this is why it's so key
to not neglect your website even if
you're not actively marketing it so even
if you're not running ads doing seo
doing content marketing social media
marketing podcasts whatever it is if
your business solely relies on existing
customers referrals or outbound cold
calling cold emailing your website is
still important because you don't know
how many people are going to check you
out first so at the very
minimum you want a site that works
smoothly loads well on mobile tablets
pcs you want your home page to be
crystal clear so your headline as soon
as someone lands on it it needs to show
your value proposition so how you help
or the problem you solve or explain
exactly what you do on that headline it
needs to guide people to easily learn
more about your services or if they want
to get in touch with you appoint them to
contact you it needs to at the minimum
have some service pages on what you
offer so your main solutions products or
services so if people want more detail
they can check that out i recommend
having some case studies or results so
people can see examples of your work
customers you've helped and also
leveraging some social proof so
leveraging things like client
testimonials maybe you've got reviews on
google or g2 crowd or capterra or
similar and making it nice and easy for
people to get in touch and contact you
give you a call or fill out a form or
email you if they wish and just making
sure the design works like i say across
devices comes across as professional so
when a potential client someone that
gets referred someone clicks a cold
email or gets a cold call books an
appointment they're going to get a solid
first impression of your company they're
going to get a great experience with
your site and be really encouraged and
excited to speak to you further rather
than thinking twice about doing business
with you because your website reflects
poorly on your business or your
organization and there you have it i
hope this short and snappy episode on
how your website impacts your revenue
even if you aren't actively marketing it
has been of use as always if you enjoyed
the show a quick rating on your podcast
channel is appreciated or if you're
tuning in on youtube a subscriber i'd be
really thankful for and with that i
shall catch you on the next episode
cheers